Real-Time Health Monitoring and Alerts Device
Overview
This project involves the development of a wearable device for real-time health monitoring and personalized health management. The device integrates various advanced sensors and utilizes machine learning to provide adaptive health alerts and recommendations.

Key Features
Comprehensive Sensor Integration:
Heart rate monitor
Blood pressure sensor
Temperature sensor
Accelerometer
Adaptive Alert System:
Real-time data analysis using machine learning algorithms
Personalized health alerts and recommendations
User-Friendly Interface:
Health goal setting
Access to historical health data
Personalized insights and advice on diet and exercise
How It Works
Real-Time Monitoring: Continuously tracks vital signs using integrated sensors.
Data Analysis: Processes collected data in real-time to detect health patterns and anomalies.
Personalized Alerts and Recommendations: Provides immediate alerts for potential health issues and offers advice on diet and exercise.
Communication: Securely transmits data to a connected app for detailed user interaction.
Novel Features
Holistic Health Tracking: Provides a comprehensive view of health by integrating multiple sensor types.
Intelligent Alert System: Uses machine learning to deliver accurate, timely health notifications.
Enhanced User Interaction: Empowers users with a user-friendly interface for proactive health management.
Patent Information
Patent Number: IN/PA-2436
Filed: 03/2024
Repository Structure
/src: Source code for the wearable device firmware and data processing algorithms.
/docs: Documentation on device specifications, user interface design, and system architecture.
/app: Mobile app source code for connecting with the wearable device and displaying health data.
/data: Sample datasets used for testing and training the machine learning algorithms.
Getting Started
Clone the Repository:
sh
Copy code
git clone https://github.com/himanshugupta2024/health-monitoring-device.git
Navigate to the Directory:
sh
Copy code
cd health-monitoring-device
Follow the setup instructions in the /docs folder to get the device and app running.
License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
